.TH OTPME-DEVICE 1 "2026" "OTPme" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme-device \- manage OTPme network devices for MAB port authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpme-device
.I command
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIdevice\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpme-device
manages network devices in the OTPme system. Devices represent network
equipment such as IP phones or printers that authenticate via MAC
Authentication Bypass (MAB). Each device has a MAC address and can be
assigned to an access group to control network access.
.PP
To use a device for MAB port authentication, add it with
.BR otpme-device ,
set its MAC address and add it to the appropriate access group with
.BR otpme-accessgroup (1).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Device Management
.TP
.B add \fIdevice\fR
Create a new device.
.TP
.B del \fIdevice\fR
Delete a device.
.TP
.B show \fR[\fIdevice\fR]
Display device information.
.TP
.B list \fR[\fIregex\fR]
List devices, optionally filtered by regex pattern.
.TP
.B enable \fIdevice\fR
Enable a disabled device.
.TP
.B disable \fIdevice\fR
Disable a device without deleting it.
.TP
.B touch \fIdevice\fR
Re-index the device to fix potential index problems.
.TP
.B move \fR[\fB\-\-keep\-acls\fR] \fIdevice\fR \fIunit\fR
Move device to a different unit.
.SS MAC Address
.TP
.B mac \fIdevice\fR \fImac_address\fR
Set the MAC address of the device. The MAC address is used for MAB port
authentication.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B config \fR[\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] \fIdevice\fR \fIparameter\fR \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
Set a configuration parameter. Use \fB\-d\fR to delete (reset to
default), \fB\-a\fR to append a value.
.TP
.B show_config \fIdevice\fR [\fIparameter\fR]
Show all configuration parameters.
.TP
.B description \fIdevice\fR \fR[\fIdescription\fR]
Set device description.
.TP
.B info \fIdevice\fR \fR[\fIinfo\fR]
Set free-form info text. If \fIinfo\fR is omitted, the current info text is
opened in the editor specified by the \fBEDITOR\fR environment variable.
.TP
.B dump_info \fIdevice\fR
Dump the info text to stdout.
.SS Policy Management
.TP
.B add_policy \fIdevice\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Attach a policy to the device.
.TP
.B remove_policy \fIdevice\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Remove a policy from the device.
.TP
.B list_policies \fIdevice\fR
List policies attached to the device.
.SS ACL Management
.TP
.B add_acl \fIdevice\fR \fIowner_type\fR \fIowner\fR \fIacl\fR
Add an access control entry.
.TP
.B del_acl \fIdevice\fR \fIacl\fR
Remove an access control entry.
.TP
.B show_acls \fIdevice\fR
Display all ACLs for the device.
.TP
.B enable_acl_inheritance \fIdevice\fR
Enable ACL inheritance from parent objects.
.TP
.B disable_acl_inheritance \fIdevice\fR
Disable ACL inheritance.
.SS Import/Export
.TP
.B export \fR[\fB\-\-password\fR \fIPASS\fR] \fIdevice\fR
Export device configuration.
.TP
.B remove_orphans \fIdevice\fR
Remove orphaned object references.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Display Options
.TP
.B \-a
Show all devices (across all units).
.TP
.B \-z \fISIZE\fR
Limit output size.
.TP
.B \-\-fields \fIFIELD1,FIELD2\fR
Display only specified fields.
.TP
.B \-\-policy\-limit \fIN\fR
Limit number of policies shown.
.TP
.TP
.B \-\-sort\-by \fIFIELD\fR
Sort output by field.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse sort order.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Output without headers/borders.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output as CSV.
.TP
.B \-\-csv\-sep \fISEP\fR
CSV separator character.
.TP
.B \-\-attribute \fIATTR\fR
Display specific attribute in list command.
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-acls
Preserve ACLs when moving device.
.TP
.B \-\-password \fIPASS\fR
Password for encrypting exports.
.PP
Global options are available for all commands. See
.BR otpme (1)
for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B otpme-device add ip-phone-1
Create a device for an IP phone
.TP
.B otpme-device mac ip-phone-1 90:1b:0e:46:46:15
Set the MAC address
.TP
.B otpme-accessgroup add_device lan ip-phone-1
Add device to access group for MAB
.TP
.B otpme-device description ip-phone-1 "Reception IP Phone"
Set description
.TP
.B otpme-device show ip-phone-1
Show device details
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/otpme/
OTPme data directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (7),
.BR otpme-accessgroup (1),
.BR otpme-host (1),
.BR otpme-client (1)
.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
