.TH OTPME-TRASH 1 "2026-03-28" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme-trash \- manage the OTPme trash
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpme-trash
.I command
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpme-trash
manages the OTPme trash.  Deleted objects are moved to the trash and
can be restored or permanently removed.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B show \fR[\fB\-\-fields\fR \fIfield1,field2,...\fR] [\fB\-z\fR \fIsize_limit\fR] [\fB\-\-raw\fR] [\fB\-\-csv\fR] [\fB\-\-csv\-sep\fR \fIsep\fR]
Show trash contents.
.TP
.B restore \fR[\fB\-\-keep\fR] [\fB\-\-objects\fR \fIoid1,oid2,...\fR] \fItrash_id\fR
Restore object(s) from trash.
.TP
.B del \fItrash_id\fR
Permanently delete an entry from trash.
.TP
.B empty
Empty the entire trash.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-fields \fIfield1,field2,...\fR
Select output fields.
.TP
.B \-z \fIsize_limit\fR
Limit output size.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Show raw output without header.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output in CSV format.
.TP
.B \-\-csv\-sep \fIsep\fR
CSV separator character.
.TP
.B \-\-keep
Keep a copy of the object in trash after restoring.
.TP
.B \-\-objects \fIoid1,oid2,...\fR
Restore specific objects from a trash entry.
.PP
Global options are available for all commands.  See
.BR otpme (1)
for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B otpme-trash show
List all objects in the trash.
.TP
.B otpme-trash restore 1774709126.6068273-a48eb24e-4238-4b40-b5b8-e4b863a43d7c
Restore a trash entry by its trash object ID.
.TP
.B otpme-trash restore \-\-keep 1774709126.6068273-a48eb24e-4238-4b40-b5b8-e4b863a43d7c
Restore a trash entry, keeping a copy in trash.
.TP
.B otpme-trash del 1774709126.6068273-a48eb24e-4238-4b40-b5b8-e4b863a43d7c
Permanently remove a trash entry.
.TP
.B otpme-trash empty
Empty the entire trash.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (1),
.BR otpme (7)
.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
