.TH OTPME 1 "2025-12-29" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme \- global options for OTPme management commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
All OTPme management commands (otpme-user, otpme-token, otpme-client, etc.) share a common set of global options described here. For a conceptual overview of the OTPme system, see
.BR otpme (7).
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.SS Connection Options
.TP
.B \-r \fIrealm\fR
Connect to a specific realm.
.TP
.B \-s \fIsite\fR
Connect to a specific site.
.TP
.B \-t \fItimeout\fR
Connect timeout in seconds.
.TP
.B \-tt \fItimeout\fR
Connection timeout in seconds.
.TP
.B \-c \fIconfig_file\fR
Use alternative config file.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-dns
Do not resolve OTPme site address via DNS.
.TP
.B \-\-use\-dns
Resolve OTPme site address via DNS.
.TP
.B \-\-login\-no\-dns
Do not resolve OTPme login point via DNS.
.TP
.B \-\-login\-use\-dns
Resolve OTPme login point via DNS.
.SS Authentication Options
.TP
.B \-\-use\-ssh\-agent \fR[\fIy|n\fR]
Use ssh-agent for authentication.
.TP
.B \-\-use\-smartcard \fR[\fIy|n\fR]
Use smartcard for authentication.
.TP
.B \-\-stdin\-pass
Read passphrase from stdin.
.TP
.B \-\-auth\-token \fItoken\fR
Emulate login with given token in API mode.
.SS Communication Options
.TP
.B \-\-socket
Use mgmtd socket.
.TP
.B \-\-api
Use direct API calls instead of connecting to a daemon.
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-\-type \fIobject_type\fR
Object type to act on (e.g. token type).
.TP
.B \-f
Do not ask any user questions.
.TP
.B \-\-print\-raw\-sign\-data
Print raw data to sign instead of sign info.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode.
.SS Debug Options
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debug mode. Multiple 'd' will increase debug level.
.TP
.B \-da
Debug function cache adds.
.TP
.B \-dA
Enable debug of transactions.
.TP
.B \-db
Print when objects are read from backend.
.TP
.B \-dc
Print when objects are read from cache.
.TP
.B \-dr
Print file reads.
.TP
.B \-dw
Print file writes.
.TP
.B \-dC
Enable debug logging for client messages.
.TP
.B \-dD
Do not go to background and log to stdout.
.TP
.B \-de
Print tracebacks.
.TP
.B \-dee
Raise debug exceptions.
.TP
.B \-dh
Debug function cache hits.
.TP
.B \-dL
Debug locks.
.TP
.B \-dm
Print loading of OTPme modules.
.TP
.B \-dM
Enable function/method call tracing.
.TP
.B \-dN
Debug network packets.
.TP
.B \-dt
Enable timestamps in debug output.
.TP
.B \-dP
Enable profiling via cProfile.
.TP
.B \-dT
Print warning if function/method call takes longer than \-\-debug\-timing\-limit.
.TP
.B \-dTT
Print timing result after method finishes.
.TP
.B \-dTTT
Print warning each time method call gets slower.
.TP
.B \-\-color\-logs
Use colored logs.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-filter \fIdaemon1,daemon2\fR
Only print log messages for the given daemons.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-daemons \fIdaemon1,daemon2\fR
Enable debug stuff only for the given daemons.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-users \fIuser1,user2\fR
Enable debug stuff only for the given users.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-func\-names \fImethod1,method2\fR
Enable timing for given functions only.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-func\-start \fImethod1,method2\fR
Start timing on method call.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-func\-caches \fIcache1,cache2\fR
Enable debug stuff only for the given function caches.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-timing\-limit \fIseconds\fR
Print warning if function/method call takes longer than given seconds.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-counter\-limit \fIcall_count\fR
Print warning if function/method is called more than given count.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-profile\-sort \fIcumtime|ncalls|tottime\fR
Statistic output sorting.
.SS Job Options
.TP
.B \-\-lock\-timeout \fIseconds\fR
Lock timeout in seconds when starting jobs.
.TP
.B \-\-lock\-wait\-timeout \fIseconds\fR
Lock wait timeout in seconds when starting jobs.
.TP
.B \-\-lock\-ignore\-changed\-objects
Ignore if an object changed while waiting for lock.
.TP
.B \-\-job\-timeout \fIseconds\fR
Job timeout.
.SS Advanced Options
.TP
.B \-\-enable\-typing
Enable Python type checking.
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-locking
Disable locking in API mode (use with caution).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (7),
.BR otpme-accessgroup (1),
.BR otpme-ca (1),
.BR otpme-client (1),
.BR otpme-dictionary (1),
.BR otpme-group (1),
.BR otpme-host (1),
.BR otpme-node (1),
.BR otpme-policy (1),
.BR otpme-pool (1),
.BR otpme-realm (1),
.BR otpme-resolver (1),
.BR otpme-role (1),
.BR otpme-script (1),
.BR otpme-share (1),
.BR otpme-site (1),
.BR otpme-token (1),
.BR otpme-tool (1),
.BR otpme-unit (1),
.BR otpme-user (1)

.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
