.TH OTPME-DICTIONARY 1 "2025-12-29" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme-dictionary \- manage OTPme dictionaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpme-dictionary
.I command
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIdictionary\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpme-dictionary
manages dictionaries in the OTPme system. Dictionaries are word lists used by password policies for password strength checking and passphrase generation. Supported dictionary types are
.BR list ,
.BR sorted-list ,
and
.BR guessing .
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Dictionary Management
.TP
.B add \fIdictionary\fR \fR[\fIdict_type\fR]
Create a new dictionary, optionally with a specific type.
.TP
.B del \fIdictionary\fR
Delete a dictionary.
.TP
.B show \fR[\fIdictionary\fR]
Display dictionary information. Without arguments, shows all dictionaries.
.TP
.B list \fR[\fIregex\fR]
List dictionaries, optionally filtered by regex pattern.
.TP
.B enable \fIdictionary\fR
Enable a disabled dictionary.
.TP
.B disable \fIdictionary\fR
Disable a dictionary without deleting it.
.TP
.B rename \fIdictionary\fR \fInew_name\fR
Rename a dictionary.
.TP
.B move \fR[\fB\-\-keep\-acls\fR] \fIdictionary\fR \fIunit\fR
Move dictionary to a different unit.
.TP
.B touch \fIdictionary\fR
Re-index the object to fix potential index problems.
.SS Word Management
.TP
.B word_import \fIdictionary\fR \fIfile\fR
Import words from a file into the dictionary.
.TP
.B word_learning \fIdictionary\fR \fIfile\fR
Analyze words from a file and build a guessing dictionary with character sequence patterns and their frequencies.
.TP
.B word_export \fIdictionary\fR
Export all words to stdout.
.TP
.B clear \fIdictionary\fR
Remove all words from the dictionary.
.SS Policy Management
.TP
.B add_policy \fIdictionary\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Attach a policy to the dictionary.
.TP
.B remove_policy \fIdictionary\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Remove a policy from the dictionary.
.TP
.B list_policies \fIdictionary\fR
List policies attached to the dictionary.
.SS ACL Management
.TP
.B add_acl \fIdictionary\fR \fIowner_type\fR \fIowner\fR \fIacl\fR
Add an access control entry.
.TP
.B del_acl \fIdictionary\fR \fIacl\fR
Remove an access control entry.
.TP
.B show_acls \fIdictionary\fR
Display all ACLs for the dictionary.
.TP
.B enable_acl_inheritance \fIdictionary\fR
Enable ACL inheritance from parent objects.
.TP
.B disable_acl_inheritance \fIdictionary\fR
Disable ACL inheritance.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B description \fIdictionary\fR \fR[\fIdescription\fR]
Set dictionary description.
.SS Import/Export
.TP
.B export \fR[\fB\-\-password\fR \fIPASS\fR] \fIdictionary\fR
Export dictionary configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Display Options
.TP
.B \-a
Show all dictionaries (across all units).
.TP
.B \-z \fISIZE\fR
Limit output size.
.TP
.B \-\-fields \fIFIELD1,FIELD2\fR
Display only specified fields.
.TP
.B \-\-policy\-limit \fIN\fR
Limit number of policies shown.
.TP
.B \-\-sort\-by \fIFIELD\fR
Sort output by field.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse sort order.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Output without headers/borders.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output as CSV.
.TP
.B \-\-csv\-sep \fISEP\fR
CSV separator character.
.TP
.B \-\-attribute \fIATTR\fR
Display specific attribute in list command.
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-acls
Preserve ACLs when moving dictionary.
.TP
.B \-\-password \fIPASS\fR
Password for encrypting exports.
.PP
Global options are available for all commands. See
.BR otpme (1)
for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Managing Dictionaries
.TP
.B otpme-dictionary add english list
Create a word list dictionary
.TP
.B otpme-dictionary add english_guessing guessing
Create a guessing dictionary
.TP
.B otpme-dictionary word_import english /usr/share/dict/words
Import words from a file
.TP
.B otpme-dictionary word_learning english_guessing /usr/share/dict/words
Build guessing patterns from a word file
.TP
.B otpme-dictionary word_export english
Export all words to stdout
.TP
.B otpme-dictionary clear english
Remove all words from the dictionary
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/otpme/
OTPme data directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (7),
.BR otpme-policy (1)

.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
