.TH OTPME-POOL 1 "2025-12-29" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme-pool \- manage OTPme node pools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpme-pool
.I command
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIpool\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpme-pool
manages node pools in the OTPme system. A pool defines which nodes are used for a share.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Pool Management
.TP
.B add \fIpool\fR
Create a new pool.
.TP
.B del \fIpool\fR
Delete a pool.
.TP
.B show \fR[\fIpool\fR]
Display pool information.
.TP
.B list \fR[\fIregex\fR]
List pools, optionally filtered by regex pattern.
.TP
.B enable \fIpool\fR
Enable a disabled pool.
.TP
.B disable \fIpool\fR
Disable a pool without deleting it.
.TP
.B rename \fIpool\fR \fInew_name\fR
Rename a pool.
.TP
.B move \fR[\fB\-\-keep\-acls\fR] \fIpool\fR \fIunit\fR
Move pool to a different unit.
.TP
.B touch \fIpool\fR
Re-index the object to fix potential index problems.
.SS Node Management
.TP
.B add_node \fIpool\fR \fInode\fR
Add a node to the pool.
.TP
.B remove_node \fIpool\fR \fInode\fR
Remove a node from the pool.
.TP
.B list_nodes \fIpool\fR
List nodes in the pool.
.SS Policy Management
.TP
.B add_policy \fIpool\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Attach a policy to the pool.
.TP
.B remove_policy \fIpool\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Remove a policy from the pool.
.TP
.B list_policies \fIpool\fR
List policies attached to the pool.
.SS ACL Management
.TP
.B add_acl \fIpool\fR \fIowner_type\fR \fIowner\fR \fIacl\fR
Add an access control entry.
.TP
.B del_acl \fIpool\fR \fIacl\fR
Remove an access control entry.
.TP
.B show_acls \fIpool\fR
Display all ACLs for the pool.
.TP
.B enable_acl_inheritance \fIpool\fR
Enable ACL inheritance from parent objects.
.TP
.B disable_acl_inheritance \fIpool\fR
Disable ACL inheritance.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B description \fIpool\fR \fR[\fIdescription\fR]
Set pool description.
.SS Import/Export
.TP
.B export \fR[\fB\-\-password\fR \fIPASS\fR] \fIpool\fR
Export pool configuration.
.TP
.B remove_orphans \fIpool\fR
Remove orphaned object references.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Display Options
.TP
.B \-a
Show all pools.
.TP
.B \-z \fISIZE\fR
Limit output size.
.TP
.B \-\-fields \fIFIELD1,FIELD2\fR
Display only specified fields.
.TP
.B \-\-node\-limit \fIN\fR
Limit number of nodes shown.
.TP
.B \-\-policy\-limit \fIN\fR
Limit number of policies shown.
.TP
.B \-\-sort\-by \fIFIELD\fR
Sort output by field.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse sort order.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Output without headers/borders.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output as CSV.
.TP
.B \-\-csv\-sep \fISEP\fR
CSV separator character.
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-acls
Preserve ACLs when moving pool.
.TP
.B \-\-password \fIPASS\fR
Password for encrypting exports.
.PP
Global options are available for all commands. See
.BR otpme (1)
for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B otpme-pool add europe
Create a pool
.TP
.B otpme-pool add_node europe node-eu-1
Add a node to the pool
.TP
.B otpme-pool list_nodes europe
List nodes in the pool
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/otpme/
OTPme data directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (1),
.BR otpme (7),
.BR otpme-share (1),
.BR otpme-node (1)

.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
