.TH OTPME-SITE 1 "2025-12-29" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme-site \- manage OTPme sites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpme-site
.I command
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIsite\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpme-site
manages sites in the OTPme system. A site contains nodes and has its own CA hierarchy. Sites can establish trust relationships with other sites to enable cross-site authentication and synchronization.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Site Management
.TP
.B add \fR[\fIoptions\fR] \fIsite\fR \fInode_name\fR \fIsite_fqdn\fR \fIsite_address\fR
Create a new site with a master node.
.TP
.B del \fIsite\fR
Delete a site.
.TP
.B show \fR[\fIsite\fR]
Display site information.
.TP
.B list \fR[\fIregex\fR]
List sites, optionally filtered by regex pattern.
.TP
.B enable \fIsite\fR
Enable a disabled site.
.TP
.B disable \fIsite\fR
Disable a site without deleting it.
.TP
.B touch \fIsite\fR
Re-index the object to fix potential index problems.
.SS Site Configuration
.TP
.B address \fIsite\fR \fR[\fIip_address\fR]
Change site IP address.
.TP
.B auth_fqdn \fIsite\fR \fIfqdn\fR
Change site auth FQDN.
.TP
.B mgmt_fqdn \fIsite\fR \fIfqdn\fR
Change site management FQDN.
.TP
.B config \fR[\fB\-d\fR] \fIsite\fR \fIparameter\fR \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
Set a configuration parameter. Use \fB\-d\fR to delete (reset to default).
.TP
.B show_config \fIsite\fR [\fIparameter\fR]
Show all configuration parameters.
.TP
.B description \fIsite\fR \fR[\fIdescription\fR]
Set site description.
.TP
.B info \fIsite\fR \fR[\fIinfo\fR]
Set free-form info text. If \fIinfo\fR is omitted, the current info text is
opened in the editor specified by the \fBEDITOR\fR environment variable.
.TP
.B dump_info \fIsite\fR
Dump the info text to stdout.
.SS Trust Relationships
.TP
.B add_trust \fIsite\fR \fItrusted_site\fR
Add a trust relationship with another site.
.TP
.B del_trust \fIsite\fR \fItrusted_site\fR
Delete a trust relationship.
.SS Authentication and Synchronization
.TP
.B enable_auth \fIsite\fR
Enable authentication with site.
.TP
.B disable_auth \fIsite\fR
Disable authentication with site.
.TP
.B enable_sync \fIsite\fR
Enable synchronization with site.
.TP
.B disable_sync \fIsite\fR
Disable synchronization with site.
.SS Certificate Management
.TP
.B dump_cert \fIsite\fR
Dump site certificate to stdout.
.TP
.B dump_key \fR[\fB\-p\fR \fIpassphrase\fR] \fIsite\fR
Dump site private key to stdout. Use \fB\-p\fR to encrypt with passphrase.
.TP
.B dump_ca_chain \fIsite\fR
Dump site certificate chain to stdout.
.TP
.B revoke_cert \fIsite\fR
Revoke site certificate.
.TP
.B renew_cert \fIsite\fR
Renew site certificate.
.SS RADIUS Certificate
.TP
.B radius_cert \fIsite\fR \fIcert_file\fR
Change RADIUS certificate.
.TP
.B radius_key \fIsite\fR \fIkey_file\fR
Change RADIUS certificate key.
.TP
.B del_radius_cert \fIsite\fR
Delete RADIUS certificate.
.TP
.B del_radius_key \fIsite\fR
Delete RADIUS key.
.SS SSO Configuration
.TP
.B sso_cert \fIsite\fR \fIcert_file\fR
Change SSO certificate.
.TP
.B sso_key \fIsite\fR \fIkey_file\fR
Change SSO certificate key.
.TP
.B del_sso_cert \fIsite\fR
Delete SSO certificate.
.TP
.B del_sso_key \fIsite\fR
Delete SSO key.
.TP
.B sso_secret \fIsite\fR \fIsecret\fR
Change SSO secret.
.TP
.B sso_csrf_secret \fIsite\fR \fIsecret\fR
Change SSO CSRF secret.
.TP
.B add_sso_host \fIsite\fR \fIhost_name\fR
Mark a host as SSO host. An SSO host is a host that can provide the SSO
portal. The following SSO related data will be synchronized to this host:
.RS
.IP \fBSSO_SECRET\fR
Flask session secret used by the SSO portal to sign session cookies.
.IP \fBSSO_CSRF_SECRET\fR
Secret used by the SSO portal for CSRF token protection.
.IP \fBSSO_CERT\fR
TLS certificate presented by the SSO portal (\fBhttpd\fR).
.IP \fBSSO_KEY\fR
Private key matching the SSO TLS certificate.
.IP \fBOIDC_PAIRWISE_SECRET\fR
HMAC key used to derive pairwise OIDC \fIsub\fR claims. Replicated to
all SSO hosts of a site so every host computes the same \fIsub\fR for
the same (RP, user) pair.
.PP
To actually start the SSO portal on the host, set
.B SSO_SERVER="True"
in
.IR /etc/otpme/otpme.conf .
See
.BR otpme.conf (5).
.RE
.TP
.B del_sso_host \fIsite\fR \fIhost_name\fR
Remove the SSO host role from a host. The SSO data will no longer be
synchronized to this host.
.SS OIDC OpenID Connect Provider
OTPme can act as an OpenID Connect Provider (OP) per site. The OP is
\fBsite-local\fR: each site exposes its own discovery document at
\fIhttps://{site.sso_fqdn}/oidc/.well-known/openid-configuration\fR
with \fIissuer = https://{site.sso_fqdn}/oidc\fR. Each OIDC client
object lives on exactly one site, and a Relying Party must address
the issuer of that site to authenticate against it.
.PP
Sites in the same realm do not share OIDC clients, signing keys, or
pairwise secrets -- each site is its own OP. For high availability
within one site, use multiple SSO hosts (see \fBadd_sso_host\fR)
behind a load balancer or DNS round-robin; they all serve the same
issuer and share the necessary site data via SSO-host sync. For
genuinely separate OPs, run OIDC on each site individually with its
own clients.
.PP
Supported flow: only the OAuth 2.1 \fBAuthorization Code Flow with
PKCE\fR is implemented (response_type=code, grant_type=authorization_code
+ refresh_token). The legacy \fBImplicit Flow\fR (response_type=id_token)
is intentionally not supported -- OAuth 2.1 §1.4 deprecates it because
tokens delivered via the URL fragment leak through browser history,
referrers, XSS and extensions; modern SPAs should use Code+PKCE
instead. The \fBHybrid Flow\fR (response_type="code id_token") is
likewise not supported; its only marginal benefit (immediate identity
rendering before the /token call) does not justify the additional
fragment-based delivery surface. PKCE is mandatory by default
(\fBoidc_pkce_required=True\fR) and only \fBS256\fR is advertised in
discovery; \fBplain\fR can be enabled per client for legacy interop
but is never advertised (see \fBoidc_allow_plain_pkce\fR).
.TP
.B enable_oidc \fIsite\fR
Enable the OIDC OP on this site. On first activation, an active
signing key (\fBgen_oidc_key\fR) and a pairwise secret are
auto-generated.
.TP
.B disable_oidc \fIsite\fR
Disable the OIDC OP. Existing keys and secrets are kept on disk so
\fBenable_oidc\fR resumes without re-issuing tokens.
.TP
.B gen_oidc_key \fR[\fB\-\-key-type\fR \fIpreset\fR] [\fB\-\-kty\fR \fIRSA|EC|OKP\fR] [\fB\-\-size\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-alg\fR \fIalg\fR] [\fB\-\-retired-max-age\fR \fIseconds\fR] \fIsite\fR
Rotate the active OIDC signing key. The previous active key is
demoted to \fBretired\fR and removed from JWKS once
\fIretired_max_age\fR (default 7200s) has elapsed, so RPs that
fetched ID Tokens just before rotation can still verify them.
Presets: \fBrsa-2048\fR, \fBrsa-3072\fR, \fBrsa-4096\fR,
\fBec-p256\fR, \fBec-p384\fR, \fBec-p521\fR, \fBed25519\fR.
.TP
.B revoke_oidc_key \fIsite\fR \fIkid\fR
Permanently remove a signing key from JWKS. Tokens signed by it stop
verifying immediately. If the revoked key was the active one, a
replacement is generated automatically.
.TP
.B show_oidc_keys \fIsite\fR
List the OIDC signing keys currently on the site (active, retired,
and their algorithms / kid).
.TP
.B oidc_pairwise_secret \fR[\fB\-\-force\fR] \fIsite\fR [\fIsecret\fR]
Rotate (or set) the pairwise sub HMAC secret for this site. Without
\fIsecret\fR a fresh 64-hex-char key is auto-generated. \fBWARNING:\fR
rotating invalidates every existing pairwise \fIsub\fR on every RP --
RPs that key their account model on \fIsub\fR will see a "fresh" user
on next login. Coordinate with each RP before rotating.
.PP
Site / Unit / Client config parameters relevant to OIDC:
.RS
.IP \fBoidc_pkce_required\fR 4
Whether PKCE is mandatory for the authorize flow. Default \fBTrue\fR
(OAuth 2.1).
.IP \fBoidc_allow_plain_pkce\fR 4
Whether the deprecated \fBplain\fR PKCE method is accepted. Default
\fBFalse\fR. Override per client only for legacy RPs that hardcode
\fBplain\fR; the discovery document never advertises it regardless.
.IP \fBoidc_logout_scope\fR 4
Scope of \fI/end_session\fR: \fBsso\fR (default) terminates the whole
SSO session via the regular logout cascade; \fBrp\fR terminates only
the OIDCSession for this RP.
.IP \fBoidc_default_scopes\fR 4
Comma-separated list of scopes auto-granted to RPs without an
explicit Scope-object grant.
.IP \fBoidc_email_attribute\fR 4
LDIF attribute used as the source for the \fIemail\fR claim.
.RE
.SS Cluster
.TP
.B cluster_key \fIsite\fR \fIcluster_key\fR
Change cluster key.
.SS FIDO2 CA Certificates
.TP
.B add_fido2_ca_cert \fIsite\fR \fIca_cert_file\fR
Add a FIDO2 CA certificate.
.TP
.B del_fido2_ca_cert \fIsite\fR \fIsubject\fR
Delete a FIDO2 CA certificate by subject.
.TP
.B list_fido2_ca_certs \fIsite\fR
List FIDO2 CA certificates.
.SS Policy Management
.TP
.B add_policy \fIsite\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Attach a policy to the site.
.TP
.B remove_policy \fIsite\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Remove a policy from the site.
.TP
.B list_policies \fIsite\fR
List policies attached to the site.
.SS ACL Management
.TP
.B add_acl \fR[\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-\-objects\fR \fItypes\fR] \fIsite\fR \fIowner_type\fR \fIowner\fR \fIacl\fR
Add an access control entry. Use \fB\-r\fR for recursive, \fB\-a\fR to apply default ACLs to existing objects.
.TP
.B del_acl \fR[\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-\-objects\fR \fItypes\fR] \fIsite\fR \fIacl\fR
Remove an access control entry.
.TP
.B show_acls \fIsite\fR
Display all ACLs for the site.
.SS Extension and Attribute Management
.TP
.B add_extension \fIsite\fR \fIextension\fR
Add an extension to the site.
.TP
.B remove_extension \fIsite\fR \fIextension\fR
Remove an extension from the site.
.TP
.B add_attribute \fIsite\fR \fIattribute\fR=\fIvalue\fR
Add an LDAP attribute to the site.
.TP
.B modify_attribute \fIsite\fR \fIattribute\fR \fIold_value\fR \fInew_value\fR
Modify an LDAP attribute of the site.
.TP
.B del_attribute \fIsite\fR \fIattribute\fR=\fIvalue\fR
Remove an LDAP attribute from the site.
.TP
.B add_object_class \fIsite\fR \fIclass\fR
Add an LDAP object class to the site.
.TP
.B del_object_class \fIsite\fR \fIclass\fR
Remove an LDAP object class from the site.
.TP
.B show_ldif \fR[\fB\-a\fR \fIattributes\fR] \fIsite\fR
Show LDIF representation of the site. Use \fB\-a\fR to show only specific attributes.
.SS Import/Export
.TP
.B export \fR[\fB\-\-password\fR \fIPASS\fR] \fIsite\fR
Export site configuration.
.TP
.B remove_orphans \fR[\fB\-r\fR] \fIsite\fR
Remove orphaned object references. Use \fB\-r\fR for recursive.
.SH ADD OPTIONS
These options are used with the \fBadd\fR command:
.SS CA Certificate Options
.TP
.B \-\-ca\-valid \fIDAYS\fR
CA certificate validity in days.
.TP
.B \-\-ca\-key\-len \fIBITS\fR
Key length for CA certificates in bits.
.TP
.B \-\-country \fICOUNTRY\fR
Set CA certificate country field.
.TP
.B \-\-state \fISTATE\fR
Set CA certificate state field.
.TP
.B \-\-locality \fILOCALITY\fR
Set CA certificate locality field.
.TP
.B \-\-organization \fIORG\fR
Set CA certificate organization field.
.TP
.B \-\-ou \fIOU\fR
Set CA certificate organizational unit field.
.TP
.B \-\-email \fIEMAIL\fR
Set CA certificate email field.
.SS Site and Node Certificate Options
.TP
.B \-\-site\-valid \fIDAYS\fR
Site certificate validity in days.
.TP
.B \-\-site\-key\-len \fIBITS\fR
Key length for site certificate in bits.
.TP
.B \-\-node\-valid \fIDAYS\fR
Master node certificate validity in days.
.TP
.B \-\-node\-key\-len \fIBITS\fR
Key length for master node certificate in bits.
.SS Dictionary and ID Range Options
.TP
.B \-\-no\-dicts
Do not add any word dictionaries for password strength checking.
.TP
.B \-\-dicts \fIdict1,dict2\fR
Add the given word dictionaries for password strength checking.
.TP
.B \-\-id\-ranges \fIrange1,range2\fR
ID ranges to add.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Display Options
.TP
.B \-a
Show all sites.
.TP
.B \-z \fISIZE\fR
Limit output size.
.TP
.B \-\-fields \fIFIELD1,FIELD2\fR
Display only specified fields.
.TP
.B \-\-policy\-limit \fIN\fR
Limit number of policies shown.
.TP
.B \-\-sort\-by \fIFIELD\fR
Sort output by field.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse sort order.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Output without headers/borders.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output as CSV.
.TP
.B \-\-csv\-sep \fISEP\fR
CSV separator character.
.TP
.B \-\-attribute \fIATTR\fR
Display specific attribute in list command.
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-\-password \fIPASS\fR
Password for encrypting exports.
.TP
.B \-\-objects \fItype1,type2\fR
Limit ACL operations to specific object types.
.PP
Global options are available for all commands. See
.BR otpme (1)
for details.
.SH CONFIG PARAMETERS
Configuration parameters can be set with the \fBconfig\fR command and displayed with \fBshow_config\fR.
For a complete description of all available parameters and their applicable object types, see
.BR otpme (7).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B otpme-site add mysite node1 site.example.com 10.0.0.1
Create a new site
.TP
.B otpme-site add_trust mysite othersite
Add trust relationship
.TP
.B otpme-site dump_cert mysite
Dump site certificate
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/otpme/
OTPme data directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (1),
.BR otpme (7),
.BR otpme-realm (1),
.BR otpme-node (1),
.BR otpme-ca (1)

.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
