.TH OTPME 7 "2025-12-29" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme \- OTPme authentication and authorization system architecture
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B OTPme
is a comprehensive authentication and authorization system that provides secure multi-factor authentication, granular access control, and centralized identity management. This manual page describes the overall architecture, core concepts, and design principles of OTPme.
.PP
A central design principle of OTPme is that each user can have
.B multiple authentication tokens
assigned simultaneously. Different tokens can be used for different services, allowing fine-grained control over how a user authenticates to each resource.
.PP
For example, consider WLAN authentication: instead of sharing a single password across all of a user's devices, an administrator can assign a separate password token for each device (laptop, phone, tablet). If a device is stolen, the administrator simply deletes that device's token. All other devices continue to work without any reconfiguration \- there is no need to change the WLAN password on every remaining device.
.PP
This per-service token design also provides strong security isolation. Since each token only grants access to the service it is assigned to, someone who obtains a user's WLAN password cannot use it to access the user's email, file shares, or system login. Each service is protected by its own independent credentials.
.PP
A user might log in to their workstation with a FIDO2 hardware key, access file shares with the same FIDO2 token, authenticate to WLAN with per-device passwords via RADIUS, and use a dedicated password token for groupware access (CalDAV, CardDAV, IMAP) from a smartphone where credentials are stored persistently on the device \- all managed centrally under one identity.
.PP
Access control is enforced through
.B clients
and
.B access groups.
Each service that authenticates against OTPme is represented as a client object. An access group is assigned to each client, and only tokens or roles that are members of that access group are permitted to authenticate.
.PP
A client can be a
.B RADIUS client,
where the RADIUS NAS identifier must match the OTPme client name. For example, a WLAN access point configured with NAS ID "wlan\-office" must have a corresponding OTPme client named "wlan\-office". Only tokens assigned to that client's access group will be accepted for WLAN authentication.
.PP
Alternatively, a client can be an
.B LDAP client,
authenticating against
.BR otpme\-ldapd .
In this case the client name is specified as a DC component in the LDAP bind DN. For example, a bind DN of
.I uid=user1,ou=users,dc=mailserver,dc=example,dc=com
maps to the OTPme client "mailserver". This way, the mail server can only authenticate users who hold tokens assigned to the mail server's access group.
.SH ARCHITECTURE OVERVIEW
OTPme is built on a distributed, hierarchical architecture with the following key components:
.SS Daemons
.TP
.B controld
Main daemon controller. Starts, stops, and monitors all other OTPme daemons.
.TP
.B mgmtd
Management daemon. Handles all administrative operations such as creating, modifying, and deleting objects (users, tokens, policies, etc.).
.TP
.B authd
Authentication daemon. Handles authentication requests, validates credentials, and manages sessions.
.TP
.B syncd
Synchronization server daemon. Serves objects from all sites to hostd instances. On nodes, objects from other sites are synchronized between hostd and syncd. Objects from the local site are synchronized between nodes by the clusterd.
.TP
.B hostd
Host daemon. Runs on both hosts and nodes. Acts as a sync client that pulls object updates from a node's syncd. On hosts, hostd synchronizes objects from all sites with the syncd on nodes.
.TP
.B clusterd
Cluster daemon. Manages cluster coordination, quorum, and master failover between nodes within a site. Also handles synchronization of local site objects between nodes.
.TP
.B joind
Join daemon. Handles the process of joining a host or node to an OTPme site.
.TP
.B ldapd
LDAP daemon. Provides an LDAP interface so that external services can authenticate users and query directory data against OTPme.
.TP
.B httpd
HTTP daemon. Serves the web SSO interface.
.TP
.B fsd
File server daemon. Handles file share access for FUSE-mounted OTPme shares.
.TP
.B scriptd
Script daemon. Executes server-side scripts (e.g. authentication scripts, push scripts).
.SS External Integrations
.TP
.B FreeRADIUS
OTPme integrates with FreeRADIUS to provide RADIUS authentication (e.g. WLAN, VPN). OTPme includes a FreeRADIUS module (rlm_python) that forwards RADIUS requests to the authd. Alternatively, FreeRADIUS can use the
.B otpme\-auth
command, which serves as a replacement for ntlm_auth. Any application that supports RADIUS (e.g. via pam_radius_auth) can authenticate against OTPme.
.TP
.B PAM Module
OTPme includes a Python PAM module that enables authentication with token types such as FIDO2 or YubiKey HMAC challenge-response during system login. Upon login, the
.B otpme\-agent
is started to manage a realm session and connections to the mgmtd. Through the otpme\-agent, users can manage OTPme objects (users, groups, tokens, etc.) and access file shares served by the fsd without re-authenticating.
.TP
.B NSS (libnss\-cache)
OTPme uses libnss\-cache to make OTPme users and groups available as local Linux accounts. The cache files are generated by the hostd using nsscache.
.SH ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
OTPme organizes infrastructure in a three-level hierarchy:
.SS Realms
A
.B realm
is the top-level administrative domain, comparable to a Windows domain. It represents a completely independent authentication domain with its own users, groups, policies, roles, units, and other objects. Realms are currently completely independent and cannot be connected to each other.
.PP
A realm contains one or more sites. Users and groups are realm-wide, meaning they exist across all sites. Other objects such as units, roles, and policies are per-site. The only user that exists per-site is the root user.
.SS Sites
A
.B site
is a separate administrative area within a realm. Typically, a site is created for each physical location. Since the nodes of a site form a cluster, this provides redundancy per location. Each site has its own root user who can manage the site's users, groups, and other objects. Additionally, each site has a
.B site_admin
role that can be assigned to a "user/token" to grant administrative rights for that site. Normal users can be granted specific modify rights on objects via ACLs, including across sites.
.PP
By default, token secrets are not synchronized to other sites. When a user from site1 tries to log in on a host belonging to site2, the authentication request is forwarded to site1. To allow local authentication without forwarding, site1 must be configured to trust site2 (site trust). With trust enabled, token secrets are replicated to the trusted site, allowing direct local authentication.
.PP
Depending on the use case, users can either be created per-site or centrally in the master site with a site trust configured. Creating users per-site allows independent administration at each location, while creating all users in the master site with trust provides centralized administration.
.PP
Nodes and hosts are created per-site but must have realm-wide unique names. The nodes of each site form a cluster.
.SS Units
.B Units
are comparable to LDAP OUs and are used to store objects. Policies and ACLs can be assigned to a unit \- for example, ACLs to allow a token or role to create, delete, or edit objects within the unit, or policies that determine which groups and roles a "user/token" belongs to.
.SH CORE OBJECT TYPES
.SS Users
User accounts represent identities that can authenticate to the system. Each user has a unique user ID (username) and gets assigned a unique UID (Unix user ID).
.PP
Every user has a default token (login) for authenticating to the realm. Additional tokens can be added for specific services \- for example, separate password tokens for WLAN access on a notebook and smartphone.
.PP
Each user has a default group. The group is not added to the user \- instead, the user is added to the group as a "default group user". This prevents an administrator of site1 from assigning a group from site2 to a user on site1.
.PP
Policies and ACLs can also be assigned to a user \- for example, ACLs that allow another "user/token" to edit the user, or a policy that determines in which unit objects (e.g. groups) are created by default.
.PP
Extensions can be added to a user. By default, the extensions "base" and "posix" are assigned. Both are LDAP extensions that define which LDAP attributes are available for the user.
.SS Tokens
Tokens are authentication credentials assigned to users. OTPme supports diverse token types:
.IP \(bu 2
.B TOTP/HOTP
- RFC 6238/4226 one-time passwords
.IP \(bu 2
.B FIDO2
- Hardware security keys and platform authenticators
.IP \(bu 2
.B U2F
- Universal 2nd Factor security keys
.IP \(bu 2
.B SSH
- Public key authentication
.IP \(bu 2
.B Password
- Static passwords with policy enforcement
.IP \(bu 2
.B YubiKey
- HMAC-SHA1 challenge-response
.IP \(bu 2
.B YubiKey PIV
- PIV smart card authentication using a YubiKey. The private key stays on the YubiKey and is used for challenge-response authentication. Can also be used for SSH key management and file encryption/decryption.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Link
- Reference to another user's token
.IP \(bu 2
.B Script
- Custom authentication via external scripts
.PP
A key concept in OTPme is that tokens \- not users \- are added to groups and roles. Typically, it is the user's default token (login) that is assigned to groups and roles.
.PP
Tokens support offline authentication, allowing secure access when the OTPme server is unreachable.
.SS Groups
A group in OTPme is automatically a Linux group on hosts and nodes, so it can be used to assign filesystem permissions. To add a user to a group, the user's default token is added to the group. Alternatively, the default token can be added to a role, and the role is then added to the group.
.PP
There is a built-in group "realmusers" that automatically contains all users of the realm. Additionally, each site has a group named after the site (e.g. "berlin") that automatically contains all users of that site.
.PP
Groups can also be used as sync groups to control which users are synchronized to a host.
.SS Roles
A role is essentially a group of tokens. In almost all places where a token can be assigned, a role can be used instead. This extends and simplifies permission management. Roles can also be added to other roles, enabling hierarchical permission structures.
.PP
There are built-in default roles:
.B REALM_USER
and
.B SITE_ADMIN.
By default, every user's default token is added to the REALM_USER role. This allows the user to log in to the realm and automatically makes them a member of the "realmusers" group. Adding a "user/token" to the SITE_ADMIN role grants site administrator privileges.
.PP
A good example of how roles work: a role "groupware" grants access to the groupware (CalDAV, CardDAV, IMAP), and a role "employee" is added to the role "groupware". Every employee automatically gets groupware access. A role "marketing" can then be added to the role "employee" and also to the group "marketing". Adding a marketing user's default token to the role "marketing" gives them both groupware access and membership in the marketing group. If all employees should later get access to an additional service (e.g. a wiki), only the role "employee" needs to be added to the corresponding access group (see Access Groups) and the permission is granted for all employees.
.SS Access Groups
Access groups are used to control access to services and to define session parameters. A client (RADIUS, LDAP) is assigned an access group \- for example, the access point "ap01" gets the access group "wlan". Tokens or roles are then assigned to the access group to grant access to the service. When a WLAN authentication request arrives, the access group determines who is allowed access.
.PP
Additional parameters can be configured per access group, such as how many failed authentication attempts lock a user out of the access group and for how long (e.g. 5 minutes).
.PP
Each access group can be configured to create a session for requests. This is useful when a service sends recurring requests with the same password or OTP (e.g. an IMAP server). Note that an OTP login is then no longer one-time but remains valid for the duration of the session. Per access group, the session lifetime and the maximum number of parallel sessions can be configured.
.PP
Access groups can have child access groups. For example, the default access group "SSO" (the OTPme SSO portal) can have "nextcloud" as a child access group. Tokens and roles that have access to the SSO access group then automatically get access to the nextcloud access group as well.
.SS File Shares
OTPme file shares require a shared storage backend mounted on all nodes (e.g. under /otpme\-mounts/ or /otpme\-mounts/share1). The mount point is assigned to the share as its root_dir. It is important that this backend is made available on all nodes equally. CephFS or NFS is recommended as backend.
.PP
Tokens or roles are assigned to a share to grant access. Clients mount shares via FUSE using
.BR otpme\-mount .
By default, all nodes serve a share. Specific nodes can be assigned to a share, in which case only those nodes will serve it. The client/host mounts the share from a random node (load balancing).
.PP
A share can optionally be created as an encrypted share. During creation, a master password is requested from which the AES key is derived. Since encryption happens on the client/host side, an encrypted copy of the AES key must be added for each token that should access the encrypted share. This is also the reason why only tokens \- not roles \- can be assigned to an encrypted share.
.SS Node Pools
A node pool is a collection of nodes. A node pool can be assigned to a share, and then the share is only served by the nodes in that pool.
.SS Policies
Policies implement business rules and security controls. They can be attached to various objects such as units, users, tokens, or access groups.
.TP
.B authonaction
Requires re-authentication when performing sensitive actions (e.g. modify, delete, add ACL). Configurable timeout and expiry. Tokens and roles can be whitelisted.
.TP
.B autodisable
Automatically disables objects after a specified time (e.g. +1h, +1D, +1W, +1M, +1Y). Can optionally count from last usage instead of assignment time.
.TP
.B defaultgroups
Automatically assigns new users to preconfigured groups upon creation. Can also set the default group of a user.
.TP
.B defaultpolicies
Automatically attaches preconfigured policies to new objects of a given type.
.TP
.B defaultroles
Automatically assigns preconfigured roles to the default token of new users.
.TP
.B defaultunits
Specifies default units for different object types, controlling where new objects are placed.
.TP
.B forcetoken
Restricts which token types and authentication methods can be used for authorization.
.TP
.B idrange
Defines ID ranges for automatic assignment of the LDAP attributes uidNumber and gidNumber. Supports sequential and random allocation.
.TP
.B logintimes
Restricts login to specific times using a cron-like format (e.g. work hours only, weekdays only).
.TP
.B objecttemplates
Automatically applies template objects (preconfigured settings) to new users or hosts.
.TP
.B password
Enforces password and PIN strength requirements (minimum length, character complexity, dictionary-based strength checking).
.TP
.B tokenacls
Automatically assigns ACLs to new tokens, controlling what users and creators can do with them.
.SH ACCESS CONTROL
OTPme implements a sophisticated multi-layer access control system:
.SS ACLs (Access Control Lists)
Fine-grained permissions controlling who can perform what operations on which objects. ACLs are assigned to a "user/token" or a role. ACLs support:
.IP \(bu 2
Object-specific permissions (view, modify, delete, enable, disable)
.IP \(bu 2
Sub-type permissions \- e.g. "enable:object" grants enabling the object itself, while "enable" without a sub-type grants all enable permissions (enable:object, enable:mschap, etc.)
.IP \(bu 2
Inheritance from parent objects (e.g. ACLs on a unit apply to all objects within)
.SH OFFLINE AUTHENTICATION
When the OTPme server is unreachable, hosts can authenticate users against locally cached offline data. Offline authentication must be explicitly enabled per token.
.PP
During an online login, the token configuration and session data are encrypted and cached locally on the host. The offline data is encrypted using Argon2i key derivation based on the user's password, PIN, or smartcard response.
.PP
When the server is unreachable, credentials are verified against the local cache. Already used OTPs are tracked locally to prevent replay attacks. Configurable expiration times control how long the offline cache remains valid (by login age and by inactivity).
.PP
When the server becomes available again, the hostd synchronizes used OTPs and token counters back to the server.
.SH CONFIG PARAMETERS
Configuration parameters are set per-object using the \fBconfig\fR command and displayed with \fBshow_config\fR.
Parameters set on a parent object (e.g. site or unit) act as defaults for all child objects unless overridden locally.
The column \fIObject types\fR lists on which object types each parameter can be set.
.PP
.B otpme-site config mysite parameter \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
.br
.B otpme-site config \-d mysite parameter \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
.SS General
.TP
.B confirmation_policy \fR(str, default: paranoid)
Controls when OTPme asks for user confirmation.
Valid values: \fBparanoid\fR (ask for confirmation on all changes; deleting requires typing the object name), \fBnormal\fR (only ask when deleting objects; requires typing the object name to confirm), \fBforce\fR (never ask for confirmation).
The \fB\-f\fR command line option also skips all confirmations regardless of the policy.
.br
Object types: site, unit, token
.TP
.B auto_sign \fR(bool, default: false)
If enabled, the user is offered to sign the object after each change.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B auto_revoke \fR(bool, default: true)
If enabled, object signatures are automatically revoked when the object is changed.
.br
Object types: site, unit, token, script
.SS Key Backup
.TP
.B private_key_backup_key \fR(str)
Public RSA key (base64-encoded) used for encryption of user private key backups. If not set, a new key pair is generated automatically.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B private_key_backup_key_len \fR(int, default: 2048)
RSA key length for the private key backup key. Valid values: 2048, 4096.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.SS Password Hashing
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_type \fR(str, default: Argon2_i)
Default hash algorithm for new password tokens. Available types depend on registered hash modules (e.g. Argon2_i, Argon2_d, PBKDF2, HKDF).
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B session_hash_type \fR(str, default: Argon2_i)
Hash algorithm used for session passwords.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.SS Session
.TP
.B static_pass_timeout \fR(int, default: 15)
Timeout in minutes for static password sessions.
.br
Object types: site, unit, host, node
.TP
.B static_pass_unused_timeout \fR(int, default: 5)
Timeout in minutes for unused static password sessions.
.br
Object types: site, unit, host, node
.SS User Scripts
.TP
.B default_key_script \fR(str)
Path of the default key script added to new users.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B default_auth_script \fR(str)
Path of the default auth script added to new users.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B default_agent_script \fR(str)
Path of the default agent script added to new users.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B default_login_script \fR(str)
Path of the default login script added to new users.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.SS User Management
.TP
.B failed_pass_history \fR(int, default: 16)
Number of failed login passwords to remember. Multiple failed login attempts with the same wrong password do not count as separate failures and will not lock the account.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B add_default_token \fR(bool, default: true)
If enabled, a default token is automatically created for new users.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B default_token_name \fR(str, default: login)
Name of the default token created for new users.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B default_token_type \fR(str, default: hotp)
Token type of the default token created for new users.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B user_key_len \fR(int, default: 2048)
RSA key length for user keys. Valid values: 2048, 4096.
.br
Object types: realm, site, unit, user
.TP
.B allow_default_token_rename \fR(bool, default: false)
If enabled, users are allowed to rename their default token.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B allow_default_token_deletion \fR(bool, default: false)
If enabled, users are allowed to delete their default token.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B allow_temp_paswords \fR(bool, default: false)
If enabled, temporary passwords can be set on tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B password_allowed_chars \fR(str, default: 0-9A-Za-z!@#$%&*()_+-={}[]:;<>.?/)
Character set allowed in passwords (used by the password policy).
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.SS Certificates
.TP
.B cert_key_len \fR(int, default: 2048)
RSA key length for CA-issued certificates. Valid values: 2048, 4096.
.br
Object types: site, unit, ca
.TP
.B cert_sign_algo \fR(str, default: sha256)
Signature algorithm for certificates. Valid values: sha256, sha512.
.br
Object types: site, unit, ca
.TP
.B crl_sign_algo \fR(str, default: sha256)
Signature algorithm for certificate revocation lists. Valid values: sha256, sha512.
.br
Object types: site, unit, ca
.SS File Shares
.TP
.B default_share_add_script \fR(str)
Path of the default script used when adding new shares.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B default_share_mount_script \fR(str)
Path of the default script used to mount shares.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B share_root \fR(str, default: /otpme-mounts/)
Root directory for new shares. A new share automatically gets \fIshare_root\fR/\fIsharename\fR as its root directory (e.g. with \fBshare_root=/otpme-mounts/\fR a share named \fBprojects\fR gets \fB/otpme-mounts/projects\fR as its root directory).
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.SS Hosts
.TP
.B hosts_accessgroup \fR(str)
Access group that new hosts are automatically added to when they are created. This is useful for MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) port authentication, where hosts need to be assigned to an access group upon registration. The value must be the name of an existing access group.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.SS Devices
.TP
.B devices_accessgroup \fR(str)
Access group that new devices are automatically added to when they are created. This is useful for MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) of network devices such as IP phones or printers. The value must be the name of an existing access group.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.SS VLAN
.TP
.B vlan \fR(str)
VLAN identifier to assign. This is used for VLAN assignment during 802.1x or MAB port authentication. The parameter can be set at various levels; the most specific match wins (e.g. a VLAN set on a token overrides the one set on the user or site).
.br
Object types: site, unit, host, device, user, token
.SS SSO Portal
.TP
.B sso_token_roles \fR(list)
Comma separated list of roles to which device tokens registered via the SSO portal are added. The role's info text is displayed in the SSO portal settings to inform users about the purpose and scope of the role. Each value can be a plain role name (resolved within the current site) or a
.IR site/role
path to reference a role on another site. The parameter is resolved per user; the most specific match wins (user overrides unit overrides site).
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B device_token_suffix \fR(str)
Suffix appended to the device token name when the SSO portal registers a token under this role. A role without \fBdevice_token_suffix\fR is not shown in the SSO portal at all, so this parameter doubles as the opt\-in switch that makes a role eligible as an SSO device\-token target via
.BR sso_token_roles .
.br
Object types: role
.TP
.B sso_allow_passkeys \fR(bool, default: true)
Whether passkeys (FIDO2 resident credentials) are accepted as a login method on this site. Set to false to refuse passkey authentication entirely; the SSO portal login mask is unchanged.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B sso_allow_fido2_deploy \fR(bool, default: true)
Whether end users may register a new FIDO2 token through the SSO portal Settings page. Set to false to restrict FIDO2 deployment to administrator workflows.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B sso_allow_totp_deploy \fR(bool, default: true)
Whether end users may register a new TOTP token through the SSO portal Settings page. Set to false to restrict TOTP deployment to administrator workflows.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B sso_rate_limit_login \fR(str, default: 100/minute)
Per\-IP rate limit on the SSO portal /login POST endpoint. Coarse DoS guard against high\-volume attacks from a single source; deliberately generous so NAT pools do not trip it under normal load. Accepts the standard Flask\-Limiter syntax (e.g. \fB100/minute\fR, \fB1000/hour\fR).
.br
Object types: site
.TP
.B sso_rate_limit_login_user \fR(str, default: 10/minute)
Per\-username rate limit on the SSO portal /login POST endpoint. Targets account brute\-force regardless of source IP; works alongside authd's auto_disable policy. NAT\-safe because the key is the submitted username.
.br
Object types: site
.TP
.B httpd_socket_uri \fR(str, default: tcp://[::]:443)
Listen socket URI for the SSO portal HTTPS daemon. Supports \fBtcp://address:port\fR. The most specific match wins (node/host override unit overrides site) so individual SSO hosts can bind a non\-default port (e.g. when fronted by a reverse proxy).
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, host
.TP
.B auth_jwt_valid \fR(time, default: 60s)
Validity of JWTs issued for cross\-site authentication. When a user authenticates against one site and then accesses another site within the same realm, the originating site issues a short\-lived JWT that the remote site uses to verify the authentication. Keep this value short to limit the window in which a leaked JWT could be replayed. The value accepts time units (e.g. \fB60s\fR, \fB2m\fR).
.br
Object types: site
.TP
.B sso_jwt_valid \fR(time, default: 24h)
Validity of the JWT that the SSO portal
.RB ( httpd )
uses to authenticate against
.B ssod
on behalf of a logged\-in user (for example to register or delete device tokens). The JWT also defines the lifetime of the user's SSO browser session: when it expires, the user is logged out of the SSO portal. Choose a value slightly shorter than the session timeout of the SSO access group so the JWT, not the access group session, drives logout. The value accepts time units (e.g. \fB12h\fR, \fB1d\fR).
.br
Object types: site
.TP
.B add_device_token_to_trash \fR(bool, default: true)
If true, device tokens that were registered through the SSO portal and are later deleted via the portal are moved to the trash instead of being removed permanently. They can be restored from the trash with
.BR otpme\-trash (1).
Set to false to delete such tokens immediately. The parameter is resolved per user; the most specific match wins (user overrides unit overrides site).
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B reverse_proxy_ips \fR(list)
Comma separated list of IP addresses of trusted reverse proxies. When a request originates from one of these IPs, the
.B X\-Forwarded\-For
and
.B X\-Forwarded\-Host
headers are honored to determine the actual client IP and the requested host. Requests from any other source IP ignore these headers, so a client cannot spoof its origin by setting them itself.
.br
Object types: site
.SS OIDC Provider
The following parameters apply per OIDC client (with site/unit serving as the deployment default). For the operational view of the OP -- enabling it, rotating signing keys, the pairwise secret -- see
.BR otpme\-site (1).
.TP
.B oidc_default_scopes \fR(list)
Comma separated list of scopes auto\-granted to RPs without an explicit Scope\-object grant. Names must reference existing
.B scope
objects.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B oidc_email_attribute \fR(str, default: mail)
LDIF attribute used as the source for the OIDC \fIemail\fR claim. The default is the standard inetOrgPerson \fBmail\fR attribute; sites that virtualise mail aliases via \fBmailLocalAddress\fR (postfix\-virtual / qmail\-style) can override here.
.br
Object types: site, unit
.TP
.B oidc_logout_scope \fR(str, default: sso)
Behaviour of the OIDC \fI/end_session\fR endpoint.
.B sso
performs full single sign\-out and cascades into all child OIDCSessions (firing backchannel logout to each registered RP).
.B rp
terminates only the OIDCSession of the calling RP; the SSO session and other RPs stay logged in. Useful when high\-security RPs want their own, shorter session lifetime independent of SSO. Valid values:
.BR sso ", " rp .
.br
Object types: site, unit, client
.TP
.B oidc_pkce_required \fR(bool, default: true)
Whether PKCE (RFC 7636) is mandatory for the authorize flow. OAuth 2.1 makes PKCE required for all clients, so the default is true. Disable per\-client only for legacy RPs that cannot generate code_verifier / code_challenge.
.br
Object types: site, unit, client
.TP
.B oidc_allow_plain_pkce \fR(bool, default: false)
Whether the deprecated PKCE method \fBplain\fR is acceptable for the authorize flow. OAuth 2.1 §7.5.2 forbids \fBplain\fR because an attacker who steals the auth code also has the verifier. The only use case for true is interop with a legacy RP that hardcodes \fBplain\fR and cannot be upgraded. The discovery document never advertises it regardless.
.br
Object types: site, unit, client
.TP
.B oidc_id_token_hint_max_age \fR(time, default: 90d)
Maximum age of an \fBid_token_hint\fR accepted at \fI/end_session\fR. We deliberately do not enforce \fBexp\fR -- a user logging out an hour after the AT expired is a legit case -- but unbounded acceptance would let a years\-old leaked ID Token from a backup still drive a logout. 90 days is a reasonable default; reduce for higher\-assurance deployments. Accepts human units (e.g. \fB7D\fR, \fB12h\fR, \fB2W\fR).
.br
Object types: site, unit, client
.TP
.B oidc_access_token_ttl \fR(time, default: 1h)
Lifetime of OIDC access tokens (and the ID Token issued alongside). Default 1h matches OAuth 2.1 guidance for bearer tokens. High\-value RPs (banking, admin tooling) may set 5m; low\-value internal tools may set 8h. Refresh tokens are bounded by the parent SSO session, not by this TTL. Accepts human units (e.g. \fB5m\fR, \fB1h\fR, \fB8h\fR).
.br
Object types: site, unit, client
.TP
.B oidc_acr_scheme \fR(str, default: numeric)
Authentication Context Class Reference (\fIacr\fR) scheme used in ID Tokens.
.B numeric
emits "0" / "1" / "2" per the OIDC Core §2 + ISO/IEC 29115 / NIST 800\-63 conventions (broadest RP support).
.B none
omits the \fIacr\fR claim entirely; only \fIamr\fR (RFC 8176) is included. AMR is always emitted when an auth_token is known. Valid values:
.BR numeric ", " none .
.br
Object types: site, unit, client
.TP
.B oidc_require_consent \fR(bool, default: false)
Whether the OP shows an end\-user consent screen at \fI/authorize\fR. Default false matches the enterprise\-SSO sweet spot: the admin has already gated per\-Scope\-allowlist who\-can\-grant\-what; an additional per\-user click is friction for trusted internal RPs. Set true per\-client for public\-facing or multi\-tenant RPs where the user must explicitly approve data sharing. Granted consents are remembered per (user, client) trust\-on\-first\-use; a wider scope request re\-prompts. The OIDC \fBprompt=consent\fR request parameter overrides the stored value and always re\-shows the screen.
.br
Object types: site, unit, client
.SS Share Notifications
.TP
.B send_share_notifications \fR(bool, default: false)
Whether the site sends share\-permission notifications to online hosts so they can react to permission changes immediately (e.g. transient mount / unmount on enable/disable). The most specific match wins (token overrides user overrides share overrides unit overrides site). Per\-command \fB\-\-share\-notify\fR / \fB\-\-no\-share\-notify\fR flags on
.BR otpme\-share ", " otpme\-group ", " otpme\-role ", " otpme\-token ", and " otpme\-user (1)
override this default for a single invocation.
.br
Object types: site, unit, share, user, token
.SS Daemon Tuning
.TP
.B authd_workers \fR(int, default: 16)
Number of preforked
.B authd
worker processes. Increase on busy nodes to handle more concurrent authentication requests. The most specific match wins (node overrides unit overrides site).
.br
Object types: site, unit, node
.TP
.B httpd_workers \fR(int, default: 8)
Number of preforked
.B httpd
worker processes serving the SSO portal. Increase on busy SSO hosts to handle more concurrent HTTPS requests. The most specific match wins (node/host override unit overrides site).
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, host
.TP
.B allow_who_from_hosts \fR(bool, default: false)
Whether \fBotpme\-tool who\fR may be invoked from non\-node hosts. Default false restricts the global session view to nodes; set true to allow ordinary OTPme hosts on the site to query active sessions of the users that are logged in there. Defense\-in\-depth: enable only when needed.
.br
Object types: site
.SS Backup
.TP
.B backup_enabled \fR(bool)
Enable or disable backups for this object.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_exclude_special \fR(bool)
Exclude special files from backup.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_server \fR(str)
Name of the node or host to use as backup server.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_time \fR(str)
Backup time window in HH:MM\-HH:MM format (e.g. "02:00\-03:00").
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_interval \fR(int)
Backup interval (accepts human-readable time values, e.g. 1h, 1D).
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_key \fR(str)
AES key (64-character hex string) for encrypting backups. Automatically generated if not set.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_repo_password \fR(str)
Password for authenticating to the backup server.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_mode \fR(str, default: pack)
Backup storage mode. Valid values: \fBpack\fR, \fBtree\fR.
In \fBpack\fR mode, backup data is stored in pack files (default, more space-efficient).
In \fBtree\fR mode, backup data is additionally stored in a directory tree that mirrors the original file hierarchy. This allows creating a restore share that can be accessed via FUSE mount.
.br
Object types: node, share
.TP
.B backup_excludes \fR(list)
Comma-separated list of patterns to exclude from backup.
.br
Object types: node, share
.TP
.B backup_includes \fR(list)
Comma-separated list of patterns to include in backup.
.br
Object types: node, share
.TP
.B backup_script \fR(str)
Path of the OTPme script (
.IR scripts/ unit
relative path) run by
.B backupd
around each backup. Invoked with a
.B pre
hook before and a
.B post
hook after the backup; non\-zero exit aborts the run. Default points at the bundled
.B backup_script.sh
in the default scripts unit. Setting this parameter requires admin.
.br
Object types: site, unit, share, node
.SS HOTP Tokens
.TP
.B hotp_check_range \fR(int, default: 32)
Counter check range for HOTP authentication.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B hotp_resync_check_range \fR(int, default: 1024)
Counter check range for HOTP token resynchronization.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B hotp_default_pin_len \fR(int, default: 4)
Default PIN length for new HOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B hotp_secret_len \fR(int, default: 10)
Default secret length in bytes for new HOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.SS TOTP Tokens
.TP
.B totp_default_pin_len \fR(int, default: 4)
Default PIN length for new TOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B totp_secret_len \fR(int, default: 10)
Default secret length in bytes for new TOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.SS mOTP Tokens
.TP
.B motp_validity_time \fR(int, default: 60)
OTP validity window in seconds for mOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B motp_timedrift_tolerance \fR(int, default: 15)
Time drift tolerance in seconds for mOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B motp_default_pin_len \fR(int, default: 4)
Default PIN length for new mOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B motp_len \fR(int, default: 6)
Length of generated mOTP values.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B motp_secret_len \fR(int, default: 16)
Default secret length in bytes for new mOTP tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.SS Static Password Tokens
.TP
.B default_static_pass_len \fR(int, default: 10)
Default length for generated static passwords.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.SS Hardware Tokens
.TP
.B check_fido2_attestation_cert \fR(bool, default: false)
If enabled, the FIDO2 attestation certificate is verified during token deployment.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B check_u2f_attestation_cert \fR(bool, default: false)
If enabled, the U2F attestation certificate is verified during token deployment.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.SS OTP Push Tokens
.TP
.B otp_push_default_pass_len \fR(int, default: 6)
Default length of generated OTP push passwords.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B default_otp_push_script \fR(str)
Path of the default script used for OTP push delivery.
.br
Object types: realm, site, unit
.SS YubiKey HMAC Tokens
.TP
.B otpme_hmac_otp_len \fR(int, default: 16)
OTP length for YubiKey HMAC tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.TP
.B otpme_hmac_secret_len \fR(int, default: 16)
Default secret length in bytes for YubiKey HMAC tokens.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user
.SS Hash Parameters (Argon2)
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2i_iterations \fR(int, default: 3)
Argon2i iteration count.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2i_min_mem \fR(int, default: 65536)
Argon2i minimum memory in KB.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2i_max_mem \fR(int, default: 262144)
Argon2i maximum memory in KB.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2i_threads \fR(int, default: 4)
Argon2i thread count.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2i_key_len \fR(int, default: 128)
Argon2i derived key length in bytes.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2d_iter \fR(int, default: 3)
Argon2d iteration count.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2d_min_mem \fR(int, default: 65536)
Argon2d minimum memory in KB.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2d_max_mem \fR(int, default: 262144)
Argon2d maximum memory in KB.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2d_threads \fR(int, default: 4)
Argon2d thread count.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_argon2d_key_len \fR(int, default: 128)
Argon2d derived key length in bytes.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.SS Hash Parameters (PBKDF2)
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_pbkdf2_iter \fR(int, default: 100000)
PBKDF2 iteration count.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_pbkdf2_algo \fR(str, default: SHA256)
PBKDF2 hash algorithm.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_pbkdf2_key_len \fR(int, default: 128)
PBKDF2 derived key length in bytes.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.SS Hash Parameters (HKDF)
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_hkdf_algo \fR(str, default: SHA256)
HKDF hash algorithm.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.TP
.B default_pw_hash_hkdf_key_len \fR(int, default: 32)
HKDF derived key length in bytes.
.br
Object types: site, unit, user, token
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/otpme/otpme.conf
Main configuration file
.TP
.I /var/lib/otpme/
Data directory (objects, indices, caches)
.TP
.I /var/log/otpme/
Log directory
.TP
.I ~/.otpme/
User-specific configuration and caches
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (7),
.BR otpme-user (1),
.BR otpme-token (1),
.BR otpme-policy (1),
.BR otpme-accessgroup (1)
.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
