.TH OTPME-CLIENT 1 "2025-12-29" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme-client \- manage OTPme clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpme-client
.I command
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIclient\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpme-client
manages client objects in the OTPme system. Clients are connected either via RADIUS or LDAP. A special client is the OTPme SSO portal, which provides Single Sign-On for web applications. Each client is assigned an access group that controls which tokens are authorized, and can optionally have addresses, secrets, and SSO configuration.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Client Management
.TP
.B add \fIclient\fR \fR[\fIaddress\fR]
Create a new client, optionally with an IP address.
.TP
.B del \fIclient\fR
Delete a client.
.TP
.B show \fR[\fIclient\fR]
Display client information. Without arguments, shows all clients.
.TP
.B list \fR[\fIregex\fR]
List clients, optionally filtered by regex pattern.
.TP
.B enable \fIclient\fR
Enable a disabled client.
.TP
.B disable \fIclient\fR
Disable a client without deleting it.
.TP
.B rename \fIclient\fR \fInew_name\fR
Rename a client.
.TP
.B move \fR[\fB\-\-keep\-acls\fR] \fIclient\fR \fIunit\fR
Move client to a different unit.
.TP
.B touch \fIclient\fR
Re-index the object to fix potential index problems.
.SS Access Group and Authorization
.TP
.B access_group \fIclient\fR \fR[\fIaccess_group\fR]
Set or display the client's access group. The access group controls which tokens are authorized to authenticate via this client.
.TP
.B add_token \fIclient\fR \fItoken_path\fR
Add a token to the client.
.TP
.B remove_token \fIclient\fR \fItoken_path\fR
Remove a token from the client.
.TP
.B list_tokens \fIclient\fR
List tokens assigned to the client.
.TP
.B add_role \fIclient\fR \fIrole\fR
Add a role to the client.
.TP
.B remove_role \fIclient\fR \fIrole\fR
Remove a role from the client.
.TP
.B list_roles \fIclient\fR
List roles assigned to the client.
.SS Login Control
.TP
.B limit_logins \fIclient\fR
Limit logins to tokens and roles explicitly assigned to this client.
.TP
.B unlimit_logins \fIclient\fR
Allow logins from all tokens authorized by the access group.
.TP
.B secret \fIclient\fR \fR[\fIsecret\fR]
Set or change the client secret (e.g. RADIUS shared secret).
.TP
.B show_secret \fIclient\fR
Display the client secret.
.SS Address Management
.TP
.B add_address \fIclient\fR \fIaddress\fR
Add an IP address to the client.
.TP
.B del_address \fIclient\fR \fIaddress\fR
Remove an IP address from the client.
.SS Auth Cache
.TP
.B enable_auth_cache \fIclient\fR
Enable authentication caching for this client.
.TP
.B disable_auth_cache \fIclient\fR
Disable authentication caching.
.TP
.B auth_cache_timeout \fIclient\fR \fItimeout\fR
Set authentication cache timeout.
.SS SSO Configuration
.TP
.B enable_sso \fIclient\fR
Enable SSO (Single Sign-On) for this client.
.TP
.B disable_sso \fIclient\fR
Disable SSO for this client.
.TP
.B sso_name \fIclient\fR \fIname\fR
Set the SSO display name for this client.
.TP
.B sso_logo \fIclient\fR \fIimage_path\fR
Set the SSO logo image for this client.
.TP
.B dump_sso_logo \fIclient\fR
Export SSO logo as base64.
.TP
.B del_sso_logo \fIclient\fR
Delete the SSO logo.
.TP
.B login_url \fIclient\fR \fIurl\fR
Set the client login URL.
.TP
.B helper_url \fIclient\fR \fIurl\fR
Set the SSO helper URL.
.TP
.B enable_sso_popup \fIclient\fR
Enable SSO popup for this client.
.TP
.B disable_sso_popup \fIclient\fR
Disable SSO popup for this client.
.SS Policy Management
.TP
.B add_policy \fIclient\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Attach a policy to the client.
.TP
.B remove_policy \fIclient\fR \fIpolicy\fR
Remove a policy from the client.
.TP
.B list_policies \fIclient\fR
List policies attached to the client.
.SS ACL Management
.TP
.B add_acl \fIclient\fR \fIowner_type\fR \fIowner\fR \fIacl\fR
Add an access control entry.
.TP
.B del_acl \fIclient\fR \fIacl\fR
Remove an access control entry.
.TP
.B show_acls \fIclient\fR
Display all ACLs for the client.
.TP
.B enable_acl_inheritance \fIclient\fR
Enable ACL inheritance from parent objects.
.TP
.B disable_acl_inheritance \fIclient\fR
Disable ACL inheritance.
.SS Configuration and Attributes
.TP
.B config \fR[\fB\-d\fR] \fIclient\fR \fIparameter\fR \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
Set or display a configuration parameter. Use \fB\-d\fR to delete (reset to default).
.TP
.B show_config \fIclient\fR [\fIparameter\fR]
Show all configuration parameters.
.TP
.B description \fIclient\fR \fR[\fIdescription\fR]
Set client description.
.TP
.B add_extension \fIclient\fR \fIextension\fR
Add an extension to the client.
.TP
.B remove_extension \fIclient\fR \fIextension\fR
Remove an extension.
.TP
.B add_attribute \fIclient\fR \fIattribute\fR=\fIvalue\fR
Add an LDAP attribute.
.TP
.B del_attribute \fIclient\fR \fIattribute\fR=\fIvalue\fR
Remove an LDAP attribute.
.TP
.B add_object_class \fIclient\fR \fIclass\fR
Add an LDAP object class.
.TP
.B del_object_class \fIclient\fR \fIclass\fR
Remove an LDAP object class.
.SS Import/Export
.TP
.B export \fR[\fB\-\-password\fR \fIPASS\fR] \fIclient\fR
Export client configuration.
.TP
.B remove_orphans \fIclient\fR
Remove orphaned object references.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Display Options
.TP
.B \-a
Show all clients (across all units).
.TP
.B \-z \fISIZE\fR
Limit output size.
.TP
.B \-\-fields \fIFIELD1,FIELD2\fR
Display only specified fields.
.TP
.B \-\-policy\-limit \fIN\fR
Limit number of policies shown.
.TP
.B \-\-sort\-by \fIFIELD\fR
Sort output by field.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse sort order.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Output without headers/borders.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output as CSV.
.TP
.B \-\-csv\-sep \fISEP\fR
CSV separator character.
.TP
.B \-\-attribute \fIATTR\fR
Display specific attribute in list command.
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-acls
Preserve ACLs when moving client.
.TP
.B \-\-password \fIPASS\fR
Password for encrypting exports.
.PP
Global options are available for all commands. See
.BR otpme (1)
for details.
.SH CONFIG PARAMETERS
Configuration parameters can be set with the \fBconfig\fR command and displayed with \fBshow_config\fR.
For a complete description of all available parameters and their applicable object types, see
.BR otpme (7).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Creating and Configuring Clients
.TP
.B otpme-client add radius_gw 10.0.0.1
Create client with IP address
.TP
.B otpme-client access_group radius_gw vpn
Assign access group to client
.TP
.B otpme-client secret radius_gw
Set RADIUS shared secret
.SS Managing Addresses
.TP
.B otpme-client add_address radius_gw 10.0.0.2
Add additional address
.TP
.B otpme-client del_address radius_gw 10.0.0.1
Remove address
.SS SSO Configuration
.TP
.B otpme-client enable_sso webapp
Enable SSO for web application
.TP
.B otpme-client sso_name webapp "My Application"
Set SSO display name
.TP
.B otpme-client login_url webapp https://app.example.com/login
Set login URL
.SS Login Control
.TP
.B otpme-client limit_logins radius_gw
Limit logins to explicitly assigned tokens
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/otpme/
OTPme data directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (7),
.BR otpme-accessgroup (1),
.BR otpme-token (1),
.BR otpme-role (1),
.BR otpme-policy (1)

.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
