.TH OTPME-BACKUP 1 "2026-03-29" "OTPme 0.3.0a120" "OTPme Manual"
.SH NAME
otpme-backup \- manage OTPme backups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpme-backup
.I command
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpme-backup
manages OTPme backups.  It can start backups, list snapshots, browse
snapshot contents and restore files or entire snapshots from a backup
repository.
.PP
The \fIbackup_object\fR argument identifies what to back up or restore
using the format \fItype\fR:\fIname\fR (e.g. \fBnode:node1\fR,
\fBshare:data\fR).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B start \fR[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR] [\fB\-\-skip\-special\fR] [\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB\-\-include\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB\-\-apply\-retention\fR] \fIbackup_object\fR
Start backup for the given backup object.
.TP
.B restore \fR[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR] \fB\-\-snapshot\fR \fIsnapshot\fR [\fB\-\-path\fR \fIpath\fR] \fB\-\-destination\fR \fIdestination_dir\fR \fIbackup_object\fR
Restore from backup repository.
.TP
.B list \fIbackup_object\fR
List backup snapshots.
.TP
.B ls \fR[\fB\-\-full\-path\fR] [\fB\-\-recursive\fR] \fIbackup_object\fR \fIsnapshot\fR [\fIpath\fR]
List contents of a backup snapshot.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Start Options
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Just print what would be backed up without actually performing the backup.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-special
Skip special files (device files etc.).
.TP
.B \-\-exclude \fIpath\fR
Exclude \fIpath\fR from backup.  Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B \-\-include \fIpath\fR
Include \fIpath\fR in backup.  Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B \-\-apply\-retention
Instruct the server to apply backup retention.
.SS Restore Options
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Just print what would be restored without actually restoring.
.TP
.B \-\-snapshot \fIsnapshot\fR
Snapshot to restore from (required).
.TP
.B \-\-path \fIpath\fR
Restore only the given path from the snapshot.
.TP
.B \-\-destination \fIdestination_dir\fR
Restore to the given destination directory (required).
.SS List Options
.TP
.B \-\-full\-path
Output full path in listing.
.TP
.B \-\-recursive
List contents recursively.
.PP
Global options are available for all commands.  See
.BR otpme (1)
for details.
.SH CONFIG PARAMETERS
Backup behaviour is controlled by configuration parameters set with the \fBconfig\fR command on the backup object (node, share) or inherited from the parent site or unit.
.TP
.B backup_enabled \fR(bool)
Enable or disable backups for this object.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_exclude_special \fR(bool)
Exclude special files from backup.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_server \fR(str)
Name of the node or host to use as backup server.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_time \fR(str)
Backup time window in HH:MM\-HH:MM format (e.g. "02:00\-03:00").
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_interval \fR(int)
Backup interval (accepts human-readable time values, e.g. 1h, 1D).
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_key \fR(str)
AES key (64-character hex string) for encrypting backups. Automatically generated if not set.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_repo_password \fR(str)
Password for authenticating to the backup server.
.br
Object types: site, unit, node, share
.TP
.B backup_mode \fR(str, default: pack)
Backup storage mode. Valid values: \fBpack\fR, \fBtree\fR.
In \fBpack\fR mode, backup data is stored in pack files.
This is the default and more space-efficient mode.
In \fBtree\fR mode, backup data is additionally stored in a directory
tree that mirrors the original file hierarchy. This allows creating a
restore share that can be accessed via FUSE mount.
.br
Object types: node, share
.TP
.B backup_excludes \fR(list)
Comma-separated list of patterns to exclude from backup.
.br
Object types: node, share
.TP
.B backup_includes \fR(list)
Comma-separated list of patterns to include in backup.
.br
Object types: node, share
.PP
For a complete description of all available parameters see
.BR otpme (7).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B otpme-backup start node:node1
Start a backup for node \fBnode1\fR.
.TP
.B otpme-backup start \-\-dry\-run \-\-skip\-special node:node1
Show what would be backed up, skipping special files.
.TP
.B otpme-backup start share:data
Start a backup for share \fBdata\fR.
.TP
.B otpme-backup list node:node1
List all backup snapshots for node \fBnode1\fR.
.TP
.B otpme-backup ls node:node1 2026\-03\-29T02:00:00 /etc
List contents of \fB/etc\fR in the given snapshot.
.TP
.B otpme-backup restore \-\-snapshot 2026\-03\-29T02:00:00 \-\-destination /tmp/restore node:node1
Restore snapshot of node \fBnode1\fR to \fB/tmp/restore\fR.
.TP
.B otpme-backup restore \-\-snapshot 2026\-03\-29T02:00:00 \-\-path /etc/otpme \-\-destination /tmp/restore node:node1
Restore only \fB/etc/otpme\fR from a specific snapshot.
.TP
.B otpme-backup restore \-\-snapshot 2026\-03\-29T02:00:00 \-\-destination /tmp/restore share:data
Restore share \fBdata\fR to \fB/tmp/restore\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme (1),
.BR otpme-tool (1),
.BR otpme (7)
.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
