.TH PAM_OTPME 8 "2025" "OTPme" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
pam_otpme \- PAM module for OTPme authentication with offline login support
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
auth [success=1 default=ignore] pam_python.so pam_otpme.py [\fIoptions\fR...]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pam_otpme
is a PAM module that authenticates users against an OTPme realm.
It is loaded via
.B pam_python.so
and supports online authentication against the OTPme daemon as well as fully
offline logins using locally cached credentials.
.PP
When a user logs in online, the module can cache the user's token credentials
on the local host so that subsequent logins succeed even when the OTPme server
is unreachable.
Offline caching must be enabled individually for each token on the server:
.PP
.nf
otpme-token enable_offline <token>
.fi
.PP
Offline credentials are protected by a key derivation function (KDF) whose
parameters can be tuned based on the strength of the user's password.
.PP
In addition to offline tokens, the module supports
.IR "offline session keeping" .
When enabled for a token, the login session is cached alongside the offline
credentials and automatically restored on the next offline login.
Session keeping is enabled per token on the server:
.PP
.nf
otpme-token enable_session_keep <token>
.fi
.PP
If the user has shares configured and auto-mount is enabled, shares are
mounted automatically when a session is restored from cache:
.PP
.nf
otpme-user enable_auto_mount <user>
.fi
.PP
The module also supports hardware smartcards (e.g. YubiKey HMAC-SHA1) and SSH
key authentication via an SSH agent (e.g. YubiKey with GPG applet combined with
an OTPme
.B ssh
token).
.SH INSTALLATION
.B pam_python.so
must be installed before
.B pam_otpme
can be used.
On Debian and Ubuntu install the distribution package:
.PP
.nf
apt-get install libpam-python
.fi
.PP
The
.B pam_otpme.py
script is installed as part of OTPme and is typically located in the OTPme
Python package directory.
.SH OPTIONS
Options are passed as space-separated arguments after
.B pam_otpme.py
on the PAM configuration line.
.TP
.B cache_login_tokens
Cache login tokens that are configured for offline usage on the server.
This enables subsequent offline logins after a successful online
authentication.
.TP
.B try_first_pass
Try to reuse the password supplied by a previously stacked PAM module.
If no password is available, prompt the user.
.TP
.B use_first_pass
Use the password supplied by a previously stacked PAM module.
Fail immediately if no password is available.
.TP
.B nullok
Allow authentication with an empty password.
.TP
.BI send_password= auto|false
Controls whether the user's password is sent to the OTPme server.
.RS
.TP
.B auto
Send the password only if the server requests it (default).
.TP
.B false
Never send the password to the server.
Useful for token types that do not require the password on the server side
(e.g. SSH tokens).
.RE
.TP
.BI use_smartcard= auto|true|false
Controls smartcard usage (e.g. YubiKey HMAC-SHA1).
.RS
.TP
.B auto
Use a locally connected smartcard if one is detected (default).
.TP
.B true
Require a smartcard; login without one is not possible.
.TP
.B false
Ignore any connected smartcard.
.RE
.TP
.BI use_ssh_agent= auto|true|false
Controls authentication via SSH key from an SSH agent (e.g. YubiKey with
GPG applet used together with an OTPme
.B ssh
token).
.RS
.TP
.B auto
Use the SSH agent if a suitable key is available (default).
.TP
.B true
Require a valid SSH key from the agent; login without one is not possible.
.TP
.B false
Do not use and do not start an SSH agent.
.RE
.TP
.BI start_ssh_agent= auto|true|false
Controls whether an SSH agent is started at login.
.RS
.TP
.B auto
Decide based on public keys received from the server (default).
.TP
.B true
Always start an SSH agent.
.TP
.B false
Never start an SSH agent.
.RE
.TP
.B unlock_via_offline_token
When set, screen unlock uses the locally cached offline token and does not
send an authentication request to the OTPme server.
.TP
.BI offline_key_func= func [; opt = val ,...]
Key derivation function used to encrypt the locally cached offline token.
The function name and its options are separated by
.BR ; ,
individual options by
.BR , ,
and key/value pairs by
.BR : .
.PP
.RS
The only supported function is
.BR Argon2_i .
Available options:
.TS
l l l.
Option	Description	Default
_
iterations	Number of iterations	3
min_mem	Minimum memory in KiB	65536
max_mem	Maximum memory in KiB	262144
threads	Number of threads	4
.TE
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
offline_key_func=Argon2_i;min_mem:65536,max_mem:262144,iterations:6,threads:4
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BI check_offline_pass_strength= policy ; score : iterations [,...]
Dynamically adjust the number of KDF iterations based on the strength of the
user's password.
A weaker password receives more iterations; a stronger password needs fewer.
.PP
.RS
The first parameter specifies the OTPme password policy used to calculate the
strength score.
Use
.B auto
to use the policy assigned to the host.
.PP
The second parameter (after
.BR ; )
is a comma-separated list of
.IB score : iterations
pairs that map a strength score to a number of KDF iterations.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
check_offline_pass_strength=password_strength;0:6,1:6,2:6,3:5,4:5,5:5,6:3,7:3,8:3,9:3,10:3
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B offline_greeting
Display a greeting message after a successful offline login.
.TP
.B online_greeting
Display a greeting message after a successful online login.
.TP
.BI message_timeout= seconds
Duration in seconds for which PAM messages are displayed.
Default:
.BR 2 .
.TP
.B show_errors
Show OTPme-specific login error messages to the user via the PAM conversation
interface.
.TP
.BI connect_timeout= seconds
Timeout in seconds when establishing a connection to the OTPme server.
Default:
.BR 3 .
.TP
.BI connection_timeout= seconds
Timeout in seconds when waiting for a response from the OTPme server.
Default:
.BR 30 .
.TP
.B create_home
Create the user's home directory on first login if it does not exist.
.TP
.BI home_skel= path
Path to a skeleton directory used when creating a new home directory.
Requires
.BR create_home .
.TP
.B debug
Enable verbose debug logging.
.SH EXAMPLES
A typical PAM entry that enables offline caching, smartcard and SSH agent
support, adaptive KDF iterations and debug output:
.PP
.nf
auth [success=1 default=ignore] pam_python.so pam_otpme.py \\
    try_first_pass \\
    cache_login_tokens \\
    use_smartcard=auto \\
    use_ssh_agent=auto \\
    offline_key_func=Argon2_i;min_mem:65536,max_mem:262144,iterations:6,threads:4 \\
    check_offline_pass_strength=password_strength;0:6,1:6,2:6,3:5,4:5,5:5,6:3,7:3,8:3,9:3,10:3 \\
    debug
.fi
.PP
A minimal entry for online-only authentication:
.PP
.nf
auth [success=1 default=ignore] pam_python.so pam_otpme.py try_first_pass
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/cache/otpme/offline/
Directory where offline token credentials and cached login sessions are stored.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpme-tool (1),
.BR otpme.conf (5),
.BR pam (7),
.BR pam_python (8)
.SH AUTHOR
the2nd <the2nd@otpme.org>
.SH NOTE
This manual page was created with AI assistance.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 the2nd. License: GPLv3
